feat(guide): port and update lots of stuff (#9385)
discordjs/discord.js: apps/guide/src/content/03-creating-your-bot/06-event-handling.mdx

---
title: Event handling
category: Creating your bot
---

# Event handling

Node.js uses an event-driven architecture, making it possible to execute code when a specific event occurs. The discord.js library takes full advantage of this. You can visit the <DocsLink type="class" parent="Client" /> documentation to see the full list of events.

::: tip
This page assumes you've followed the guide up to this point, and created your _`index.js`_ and individual slash commands according to those pages.

> :::

Reviewer: Needs to be converted to an `<Alert />` component

		if ('data' in command && 'execute' in command) {
			commands.set(command.data.name, command);
		} else {
			console.log(`[WARNING] The command at ${filePath} is missing a required "data" or "execute" property.`);
		}
	}
}
```

```js ClientReady
client.once(Events.ClientReady, (c) => {
	console.log(`Ready! Logged in as ${c.user.tag}`);
});
```

```js InteractionCreate
client.on(Events.InteractionCreate, async (interaction) => {
	if (!interaction.isChatInputCommand()) return;

	const command = commands.get(interaction.commandName);

	if (!command) {
		console.error(`No command matching ${interaction.commandName} was found.`);
		return;
	}

	try {
		await command.execute(interaction);
	} catch (error) {
		console.error(`Error executing ${interaction.commandName}`);
		console.error(error);
	}
});
```

</CH.Code>

Currently, all of this code is in the _`index.js`_ file. <DocsLink type="class" parent="Client" symbol="e-ready" /> emits once when the _`Client`_ becomes ready for use, and <DocsLink type="class" parent="Client" symbol="e-interactionCreate" /> emits whenever an interaction is received.

> Moving the event listener code into individual files is simple, and we'll be taking a similar approach to the [command handler](/creating-your-bot/command-handling.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moving the event listener code into individual files is simple, and we'll be taking a similar approach to the [command handler](./handling-command-interactions).
```

		return;
	}

	try {
		await command.execute(interaction);
	} catch (error) {
		console.error(`Error executing ${interaction.commandName}`);
		console.error(error);
	}
}
```

```js events/ready.js
import { Events } from 'discord.js';

export const data = {
	name: Events.ClientReady,
	once = true,
};
export async function execute(client) {
	console.log(`Ready! Logged in as ${client.user.tag}`);
}
```

```js index.js
import { readdir } from 'node:fs/promises';
import { join } from 'node:path';
import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url';
import { Client, GatewayIntentBits } from 'discord.js';
import config from './config.json' assert { type: 'json' };

const client = new Client({ intents: [GatewayIntentBits.Guilds] });

client.login(config.token);
```

</CH.Code>

The _`name`_ property states which event this file is for, and the _`once`_ property holds a boolean value that specifies if the event should run only once. You don't need to specify this in _`interactionCreate.js`_ as the default behavior will be to run on every event instance. The _`execute`_ function holds your event logic, which will be called by the event handler whenever the event emits.

## Reading event files

> Next, let's write the code for dynamically retrieving all the event files in the _`events`_ folder. We'll be taking a similar approach to our [command handler](/creating-your-bot/command-handling.md). Place the new code highlighted below in your _`index.js`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, let's write the code for dynamically retrieving all the event files in the _`events`_ folder. We'll be taking a similar approach to our [command handler](./handling-command-interactions). Place the new code highlighted below in your _`index.js`_.
```
